Why would this be true? The answer can be traced back to the way in
which gravity affects bodies. Remember (see Sect. 4.3.3) that the quantity
we called m (the mass) played two different roles in Newton’s equations.
One is to determine, given a force, what the acceleration of the body would
be: F = ma (the inertial mass). The other is to determine the intensity
with which the said body experiences a gravitational force: F = mMG/r2
(the gravitational mass). As mentioned before these two quantities need not
be equal: the first “job” of m is to tell a body how much to accelerate given
any force, a kick, an electric force (should the body be charged), etc. The
second “job” tells the body how much of the gravitational force should it
experience and also determines how strong a gravitational force it generates.
But, in fact, both numbers are equal (to a precision of ten parts per billion).
The whole of the General Theory of Relativity rests on this postulate,
and will fail if one can find a material for which the inertial and gravitational masses
have different values. One might think that this represents a defect of the theory,
its Achilles heel. In one sense this is true since a single experiment has the potential
of demolishing the whole of the theory (people have tried...hard, but all experiments have
validated the principle of equivalence). On the other hand one can argue that a theory
which is based on a minimum of postulates is a better theory (since there are less assumptions
involved in its construction); from this point of view the General Theory of
Relativity is a gem.

Why is that? Because of the equality of the gravitational and inertial
masses. All objects are falling together and are assumed to be rather close
to each other (the box is not immense) hence the paths they will follow will
be essentially the same for each of them. So if the observer lets go of an
apple, the apple and the observer follow essentially the same trajectory, and
this implies that the observer will not see the apple move with respect to
him. In fact, if we accept the priniciple of equivalence, nothing can be done
to determine the fact that the observer is falling towards the Moon, for this
can be done only if we could find some object which behaved differently from
all the rest, and this can happen only if its gravitational and inertial masses
are different. The principle of equivalence then implies that the observer
will believe that he/she is an inertial frame of reference...until disabused of
the notion by the crash with the surface.

General relativity also predicts the existence of gravitational waves, which have
since been observed directly by the physics collaboration LIGO. In addition, general relativity is
the basis of current cosmological models of a consistently expanding universe.