This is reminiscent of Galileo’s argument: the observer lets go of some
objects which remain in a state of uniform motion (with respect to him!).
This behavior is independent of their chemical or physical nature (as above,
air resistance is ignored). The observer (Wile), as long as he confines his/her
observations to his/her immediate vicinity (that is, as long as he/she does
not look down) has the right to interpret his state as ‘at rest’. Just as
Galileo argued that experiments in a closed box cannot determine the state
of uniform motion of the box, Einstein argued that experiments in a freely
falling small2 closed box cannot be used to determine whether the box is in
the grip of a gravitational force or not.
Why would this be true? The answer can be traced back to the way in
which gravity affects bodies. Remember (see Sect. 4.3.3) that the quantity
we called m (the mass) played two different roles in Newton’s equations.
One is to determine, given a force, what the acceleration of the body would
be: F = ma (the inertial mass). The other is to determine the intensity
with which the said body experiences a gravitational force: F = mMG/r2
(the gravitational mass). As mentioned before these two quantities need not
be equal: the first “job” of m is to tell a body how much to accelerate given
any force, a kick, an electric force (should the body be charged), etc. The
second “job” tells the body how much of the gravitational force should it
experience and also determines how strong a gravitational force it generates.
But, in fact, both numbers are equal (to a precision of ten parts per billion).
The whole of the General Theory of Relativity rests on this postulate,
and will fail if one can find a material for which the inertial and gravitational masses
have different values. One might think that this represents a defect of the theory,
its Achilles heel. In one sense this is true since a single experiment has the potential
of demolishing the whole of the theory (people have tried...hard, but all experiments have
validated the principle of equivalence). On the other hand one can argue that a theory
which is based on a minimum of postulates is a better theory (since there are less assumptions
involved in its construction); from this point of view the General Theory of
Relativity is a gem.